Permissions can also be expressed in decimal notation, read is full, right, is to and execute is
one.
If you have no permissions, it is zero.
Let's look at an example.
If you have permissions of six six for the first value, six refers to the owner, the second six refers
to the group, the four.
The last character refers to the other user to get permissions of 66 for you and the permissions together.
Reed is for right to execute one to get six.
It's four plus two.
So it's read plus.
Right.
So when we look at the permission, it will be our W python.
That is for the owner, for the group.
The permissions are six.
How do we get six readers for writers to set the permissions will be are W hyphen for all other users.
The permission value is for that is read.
It will be displayed as R hyphen hyphen.
Let's go back to the listing of our Ingenix directory record.
Ingenix dot com and F first three characters.
Read, write, read is four, right is two.
So that's six for the group.
It's read, that's four for all other users.
It is read which is four.
So the engine extorts.
SEO NFL has permissions of six for four.
When we look at the directory sites available, the owner read, write, execute four plus two plus
one.
So it is seven for the group owner it is read which is four and execute which is one.
So it is five.
All other users read and execute four plus one.
So the sites available directory has permissions of seven five five.
It's no good.
Another example, permissions of seven seven five to get seven.
It's four plus two plus one.
Read write, execute the next seven four plus two plus one, the five four plus one.
So the owner seven, the group seven, all other users five.
That is how you would express permissions of seven seven five.
The owner can read, write and execute.
The group can read, write and execute.
All other users can only read and execute.
You may at some stage come across permissions of four hundred permissions of 400.
Give the owner of the file the ability to read the file.
The group and other users have no permissions on that file.
Permissions of six four are also file permissions that you will come across as you start working on
your server.
That gives the owner the ability to read and write the group to read.
All other users can only read that file permissions of seven five five.
You will also come across frequently when working on your server.
These permissions relate to directories.
The owner can read, write and execute.
The group can read and execute.
All other users can read and execute.
I must mention permissions of seven seven seven permissions of triple seven.
Give all users the owner, the group and all other users the ability to read, write and execute.
Never use seven seven seven as a permission value.
If you want to introduce vulnerabilities into your server, start giving files and directories.
Permissions of seven seven seven do not use permissions of seven seven seven.
If any plugin or theme requires seven seven seven permissions, please get in touch with a developer
and ask them to learn how to code correctly or an easier solution.
Find another plugin or theme.
You will see this often when setting up various content management systems.
Sometimes it's even in the documentation to change permissions to seven seven seven.
It's easy to be lazy and recommend triple seven permissions.
Do not do this.
Rather, look at the ownership and permissions and try and figure out what.
Needs permission to do what when a developer recommends triple seven permissions, you can resolve it
by giving the Web server right permissions, sometimes triple seven permissions can also indicate that
there is a problem with your configuration.
Fix the configuration.
Don't try and find an easy way out and use 777.
Always remember, there are no shortcuts and easy fixes in server security.
You have to do it correctly from the word go.
I just want to recap what each permission means.
When we look at files and directories, they are different when it comes to the read permission with
files.
It allows the user to view the contents of the file with directress.
It allows a user to view the contents of a directory when it comes to write permissions with files.
It allows a user to modify, edit and delete files.
When it comes to directress, it allows a user to write into the directory that is, create files and
directories inside that directory with execute when it comes to files.
It allows the user to execute the file if it is a program or script when it comes to directories.
It allows the user to enter that particular directory.
Earlier we looked at what permissions are required for your WordPress directories.
We will look at this again when we set up WordPress, the root owned by your user.
Ignore ownership for now.
Let's just concentrate on permissions writable by your user only and readable by the Web server.
All users need to execute permissions on the directory to enter it, so that gives one for each user.
Each user also needs to be able to read the directory that gives us permissions of so each user currently
is four plus one five five five.
Only our user who is the owner must have right permissions.
So that's two.
So we have seven five five.
The same for WP Admin seven five five.
The same for WP includes seven five five.
WP content is slightly different.
It needs to be writable by our user and the web server.
Seven five five is correct, but we need to add right permissions to the web server.
The web server is the group owner.
We now have seven seven five.
There are a few commands I'd like you to make note of when working with ownership and permissions to
change the permissions of a file or directory.
We use the command change mode.
S.H. Mod the command user mod that allows us to take a user and add it to a group.
We can also change the ownership of files and directories.
That command is S.H. own change ownership to switch or change users use the command switch use s you
do not use permissions of seven seven seven.
Understanding permissions is an important part of server administration.
If you're still a little lost about permissions and ownership, don't worry about it.
Now, Kinealy, throughout the rest of the course there are many stages where we will work with permissions
and ownership.
You will master it.